---
layout: default
title: Week 5
---
# 2/8/2022
45 minutes of Lecture 5 (I’m noticing that I understand the nomenclature much better! Sololearn has really helped.)

Used Valgrind on my wday.c program and found that I had a memory leak! I fixed it by freeing memory I’d forgotten about. I bet this was what caused my computer to freeze up!

---

# 2/9/2022
Finished Week 5 Lecture

---

# 2/18/2022
Watched short on Singly-Linked Lists.

My Projects: tried to gain deeper understanding of File Handling with some success. I need to dig deeper here for a bit. I want to make a cryptographic program that open a txt file and scrambles it according to an algorithm. Played around with file handling some more and I am having more success! I was able to open a file and duplicate it with my program. What’s more, I dynamically allocated memory with the following:
 
```
Buffer = malloc(sizeof(inFile));
```

WOW: this is an event! I thought of making this program (texthash.c) a while back and I finally did it! It works perfectly. You open a .txt file with the program and give it a 26 character cipher and it produces a new, encrypted .txt file!

BREAK: I’ve continued to practice here and there, but the moving process has taken up a lot of my time!

---

# 2/25/2022
Finished up Week 5 Shorts.

---

# 2/28/2022
Finished Week 5 Lab - Inheritance.

---

# 3/1/2022
Read through the pset5 Speller guide carefully. I still need to watch the walkthrough videos.

---

# 3/15/2022
Problem Set 5 Speller

---

# 4/5/2022
Am I back in the saddle? It feels better to code! Pset5 Speller - worked a little on the hash function!

---

#7/7/2022
Wk 5 Speller - Wow. I came to this problem with much more confidence. It still took some work, but I got it to run! I can finally proceed to week 6!

